We have faith in Jehovah,
and we trust his promises.
And in this, we have a wonderful example
in Sarah, Abraham’s wife.
If you take all the words
that are attributed to Sarah in Genesis,
they amount to about a dozen sentences.
Half of them were about Hagar and Ishmael.
The other half
were about Sarah’s own ability
to produce a son for Abraham.
Clearly, this promise
of producing offspring for Abraham
was very important.
But how did Sarah feel about it?
We learn something from her own words,
but we get a very strong clue in this verse
in Hebrews chapter 11.
So please turn to Hebrews chapter 11,
and stay there in your Bible.
Here’s our key verse—11:
“By faith also Sarah
received power to conceive offspring,
“even when she was past the age,
since she considered Him faithful
who made the promise.”
“She considered Him faithful
Now, that kind of faith
doesn’t develop overnight.
So let’s look at about 25 years
of Sarah’s life
and see how she retained faith
in Jehovah’s promises
despite hardship,
disappointment, and uncertainty.
Hardship:
Sarah is about 65 years old,
and she accompanies her husband, Abraham,
across the Euphrates River
south toward the land of Canaan.
It was a long, arduous journey.
But they were powered by Jehovah’s promise.
‘I’m going to make
a great nation out of you.’
That didn’t mean it was easy.
They were still getting used
to this new country,
finding their way around
when the land was gripped by famine.
They had to make another long journey
all the way down to Egypt.
It gets worse.
Sarah is kidnapped
as a potential wife for Pharaoh.
Has the God of promise abandoned them?
By no means.
Jehovah miraculously saved Sarah
from the situation.
They get back safely to the land of Canaan,
and as a family, they start to prosper.
What does Sarah learn from this
about Jehovah’s promises?
Don’t focus on the hardship
but on how Jehovah carries you through it.
Disappointment:
You imagine the excitement of Abraham
when one night
he comes and shares with Sarah
what Jehovah has just told him:
‘Look up at the stars of heaven;
can you count them?’
“So your offspring will become.”
And Jehovah also said to Abraham:
‘Your offspring will be
afflicted and enslaved for 400 years
before they come back
and take possession of the land.’
Now, if you’re Sarah,
how do you respond?
‘Four hundred years!
‘We’ve been here, what, ten years,
‘and still 400 years!
We won’t even see this in our lifetime!’
So how did Sarah really respond
when she learned the full extent
of Jehovah’s larger promise?
Go back to Hebrews chapter 11.
Verses 11 and 12 talked about Sarah’s faith,
and then verse 13 says:
“In faith all of these
[including Sarah] died,
“although they did not receive
the fulfillment of the promises
“(not in their lifetime);
“but they saw them from a distance
and welcomed them.”
Because of Sarah’s faith
in Jehovah’s promises,
she was willing to be patient
to follow Jehovah’s timetable.
But this probably wasn’t
her biggest disappointment.
Jehovah had just said again:
‘I’m going to make Abraham’s offspring
like the stars of heaven.’
And Sarah really wanted that privilege
of producing a son for Abraham to be hers.
But now, at the age of 75,
it seemed that her chances
of having that privilege
were just slipping away.
What would she do?
Well, she realized here, too,
the promise was bigger than her.
And so she took Hagar her maidservant
and gave her to Abraham
so that she could give a son to him.
She had faith in Jehovah’s promise,
and despite her personal disappointments,
she wanted to do everything she could
to support it.
Close on the heels of disappointment
was uncertainty.
Do you think as Sarah
watched young Ishmael,
Hagar’s son, grow up
that she wondered about her own role,
her own real value?
The next time we meet up with Sarah,
Ishmael is about 13 years of age
and Sarah is 89.
She and Abraham are entertaining
three angelic messengers from Jehovah,
and as she listens to the conversation,
she realizes that this time the message
is not just for Abraham;
it’s for her.
This time next year, Sarah will have a son.
As she listens, she can’t help herself.
She laughs, and then she denies laughing.
So her laughter—
Was this a lack of faith
or disbelief in Jehovah’s promise?
No.
Go back to our key verse, because this is
exactly where it comes in—verse 11:
“By faith also Sarah received power
to conceive offspring, . . .
“since she considered Him faithful
who made the promise.”
She always had that faith.
Now, imagine Sarah’s joy.
She is raising a young son
with a beautiful, spiritual disposition.
This is exactly the one
(the right disposition)
to carry on Jehovah’s great promise.
This is her son.
Sarah didn’t live long enough to see
Isaac marry Rebekah
or to see his twin boys,
but when she wakes up in the Paradise,
she’ll be able to find out all of that
and she will learn
the remarkable role that Jehovah
always had in mind for her and his purpose.
But going back, how did Sarah cope
with those years of uncertainty?
Let’s go back to Hebrews 11,
because we’ve described
Sarah as a woman of faith
in Jehovah’s promises.
Now, a few verses earlier in verse 6,
this is an important aspect of faith.
Paul says: “Moreover, without faith
“it is impossible to please God well,
“for whoever approaches God
must believe [must believe]
“that he is and that he becomes
the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him.”
Now, Sarah didn’t always know
how Jehovah would reward her or when,
but she did have this kind of faith.
And so she believed
in Jehovah as the Rewarder
and the Fulfiller of promises.
So, what have we learned from Sarah
when it comes to Jehovah’s promises?
We’ll have hardship,
but that’s not where we focus.
We focus on how Jehovah is helping us.
If we experience personal disappointment,
we realize Jehovah’s promise
is bigger than us.
We patiently wait on Jehovah,
and we humbly do what we can
to support his great work.
We’ll face uncertainty,
but in all things,
we trust our Rewarder and his promises.
Every day, we rely on the fact
that Jehovah has made promises
and he fulfills them on our behalf.
Jehovah never lets us down.
And the best is yet to come.
We know this because, like Sarah,
‘we consider him faithful
who made the promise.’